rodcoover: Seeing people.
Vin?cius UFMT: Okay.
Vin?cius UFMT: So um morning everyone.
Vin?cius UFMT: will start now the panel platforms and software one i'll be moderating the session and.
Vin?cius UFMT: We think of maybe each presenter speaking for five minutes.
Vin?cius UFMT: It.
Vin?cius UFMT: should have been more.
Vin?cius UFMT: or less that's OK, we have.
Vin?cius UFMT: room for accommodating and.
Vin?cius UFMT: Then we'll get started, and after that we will discuss and open up the mics for.
rodcoover: Questions comments.
Vin?cius UFMT: From the audience so ah, the first paper is number 34 by.
Vin?cius UFMT: Calling post.
Vin?cius UFMT: called on the platforms ruins practicing a poetics of obsolescence.
Colin Post: Great shape take it away.
rodcoover: All right.
Colin Post: Thank you and thank you all for.
Colin Post: showing up at the.
Colin Post: Various times of.
Colin Post: day that it is around the world and.
Colin Post: So hi i'm compost assistant professor in London information science.
Colin Post: at university North Carolina greensboro where it's the.
Colin Post: Perfect time of 10am.
Colin Post: Perfect time for.
Colin Post: conference presentation, so I my paper wrote about.
A.
Colin Post: piece of.
Colin Post: Net art.
Colin Post: called the network.
Colin Post: Within a database by.
Colin Post: An earthquake and artists.
rodcoover: Brian mclaren.
Colin Post: And in lieu of sort of a formal.
Colin Post: presentation, I was going to.
Colin Post: share my screen and just sort of do.
Colin Post: A little bit of a.
Colin Post: overview of the.
piece.
Colin Post: And sort of highlight some of the things that I.
Colin Post: talked about.
Colin Post: In the paper and i'll throw the link.
Colin Post: into the chat if anyone wants to.
Colin Post: sort of browse.
along.
Colin Post: With me so.
Colin Post: I have been fascinated by this piece for.
Colin Post: A long time.
rodcoover: Basically what it is, is.
Colin Post: In early 2000s from.
Colin Post: This artist Brian mclaren.
Colin Post: compiled this.
Colin Post: database, although.
Colin Post: He sort of.
Colin Post: winky only refers to it as a database because.
Colin Post: Essentially, just an html.
Colin Post: page of.
Colin Post: links to.
rodcoover: Net art projects with.
Colin Post: With descriptions and specifically another art projects by.
Colin Post: artists from.
Colin Post: Latin American countries and so he was motivated to do this.
Colin Post: Because he was recognizing that a lot of.
Colin Post: Latina X, not our projects we're not getting talked about in the sort of mason net are just courses and.
Colin Post: exhibitions and things like that that we're starting to show up at at this time in the late 90s early 2000s, so he compiled this this database to sort of document and create visibility and exposure for for these projects and I wrote about it as a.
Colin Post: it's become a kind of archive of these projects, many of which are no longer active online anymore, so if you just pick.
Colin Post: One at random here you'll notice that.
Colin Post: it's sort of a.
Colin Post: For the most part, many of these products will lead to errors like this things that are no longer publicly available the ubiquitous for a for error or projects that.
Colin Post: Work in some capacity but don't have the intended functionality, because they were made for really 2000s browsers and not.
Colin Post: 2021 browsers so this product in a way, has become a kind of archive of.
Colin Post: These works that that no longer.
Colin Post: Functioning anymore, and in many cases aren't even included in things like the Internet archive so I wanted to write about this project as a sort of artists driven effort to document.
Colin Post: Digital culture at this this critical juncture where you know lots of people were coming online.
Colin Post: and
Colin Post: sort of things that we take for granted, now or we're just sort of starting to form.
Colin Post: So a couple things that I talked about that i'll just like quickly point out, though, is that one of the reasons that this really sort of works as as an archive even though.
Colin Post: The pieces themselves are no longer active in the functional way is because it takes this kind of low tech strategy that is sort of resilient and resistant to to obsolescence so the fact that it's hand coded html that's not dependent on plugins or or other things to the function.
Colin Post: makes it so the the work as it was originally made in in 2000 still exists and more or less the same.
Colin Post: way that it that it did 20 years ago and so just sort of like as a as a demonstration of that I have also spun up the piece in the old web browser and you can see that it's still you know.
Colin Post: Aside from the interface of.
Colin Post: But Netscape navigator browser been somewhat different than the than the current firefox browser still essentially looks the same.
Colin Post: Today, as it did 20 years ago, so be very happy to talk more about this in the discussion to follow and looking forward to the other presentations.
Vin?cius UFMT: Is, thank you for calling.
Vin?cius UFMT: And now we're going to move to our second presentation that would be paper 111 by roderick Hoover cold platform collaboration, creativity and determinism in virtual reality an artist paper, the making of the key to time a work for vr domes in caves.
rodcoover: Alright, thanks everyone I hope everyone's having a great conference it's been.
Vin?cius UFMT: Really fun so up.
rodcoover: Thanks calling for that paper also great stuff.
rodcoover: i'm going to jump into screen share and take us a little bit through the key to time and we'll look at a teeny clip very short one before we open things up and pass along to.
rodcoover: danny's paper so screen share here we go.
rodcoover: So i'm going to just start off here with.
rodcoover: A.
rodcoover: up well you're going to get to see it this way that, so the key to time is a 40 minutes experience, mostly for domes and a large format 360 cinema like caves.
rodcoover: environments and unfortunately it was released three days before the shutdown and March 2020 so we had a showing at the routes planetarium to launch it.
rodcoover: And then everything else is pretty much virtual since then, the story and mostly in this paper than focus on platforms, you can read about that in more length but it's modeled after.
rodcoover: The 1920s space opera genre and it concerns a scientist who's cast 100 years into the future.
rodcoover: and less travel find a way to travel back in time to stop the world becoming the disaster, it is.
rodcoover: To express the sense of time I move between different file formats so within the vr space we have various films within films filmed in 1920s black and white silent style.
rodcoover: That hover in the space that cast in the way of past and play with a past aesthetics in this otherwise futuristic environment.
rodcoover: And is a movement between styles in between, in a way forms of filmmaking.
rodcoover: gives a kind of perspective on settings on the different aesthetics and qualities of color immersion animation in this case, Anna who is.
rodcoover: The.
rodcoover: Center of this story, he is trying to get back to Adam had her hand blown off in an accident gone wrong by father was rather jealous of panics advances on his daughter and that's another side story I won't get into but she has a glass hand that has some magical powers.
rodcoover: adventure moves across time and space in place, specifically with time trying to think about how the 360 environment, the mesh used in programs like unity and blender.
rodcoover: can be distorted to play with conventions of perspective and to move us across spaces that are both very large and very small, so we find ourselves inside clocks and other time devices inside zone tropes and other visual time devices.
rodcoover: and moving around large spaces, where our images get multiplied in this case 10 actors at a bar watching a concert as he's trying to find Adam, who is fleeing from his doppelganger.
rodcoover: The film, as I mentioned was designed for planetariums it invoke it actually includes also a lot of imagery for that I took from NASA.
rodcoover: And one of the things I thought would be interesting to discuss is this difference of shared a most of experience from a private and must have experience with vr headsets this is that a showing of the key to time in loving Ukraine.
rodcoover: In a vr theater where everyone is sitting there, but having their own experience a cut off from each other.
rodcoover: As I mentioned them the models included the early space opera genres.
rodcoover: And this is, in fact, our version made with space opera meaning more to do the melodramatic experience about early SCI fi.
rodcoover: But, in our case, the conditions of filming meant that I worked a lot with opera singers because we film in the large green screen with the film was made.
rodcoover: It was very advantageous to separate the sound pre recorded with vocal artists and I was in a program, the reason I started the project was that I had a Commission to do collaboration with composers, a Polish Government was setting up collaboration between artists and composers.
rodcoover: And so we took this as a kind of tongue in cheek play upon that notion, it also borrows a lot from the aesthetics of metropolis and also Andalusian dog.
rodcoover: Mostly today in the discussion, the idea is to talk about the green screen environment, this was filled in washcloth at cetera studios Center studios used to be a.
rodcoover: Great old style film studio known for films like this Eric off the manuscript classical the 1960s and it turned into animation and immersive media production studio about 10 years ago with a huge blue screen and green screen.
rodcoover: Designing for these spaces.
rodcoover: This is a very different kind of filmmaking one has to innocence pre planning environments, that will be sketched out in the green space.
rodcoover: And we built the environment, either in blender.
rodcoover: Or we use our backgrounds and the natural world.
rodcoover: But they had to be very carefully calibrated so that the imagery would match up.
rodcoover: We then created mockups and mock up like this of two people leaving a tower.
rodcoover: With them become the setting on which we would put also a natural it material, as well as you can see the artificial artificially created settings from blender.
rodcoover: The filming experience, therefore, was like this here is a scene in which tedx doppelganger is hiding behind is hiding by Bush.
rodcoover: You can see the green screen image on the main was being filmed can see on the bottom left what showing up as a green screen image and right next to it, the mock up of where we anticipate the Bush will be drawn when the pieces transformed.
rodcoover: Here we had markings on the floor and i'm trying to direct Ana defined right footsteps so that she will match up in the scene.
rodcoover: He has a good example of transforming one of the black and white scenes this is in the dad has just blown off and his hand, which therefore is wearing a green glove is a hand will disappear and 10 actors just walks through the door.
rodcoover: This is how the scene looks with the background put in actually The background is from our solarium here in Philadelphia.
rodcoover: And as dynamic and his dad and his I know with her hand gushy.
rodcoover: Technology wise and.
rodcoover: The filming was used done using several cameras, and this is also an interesting platform machine so, on the one hand we use 4k cameras gang together to create 3D.
rodcoover: And these create so basically eight k's with the material, but only for small portion of the screen that has to be re contorted to fit a 360 image.
rodcoover: The images are accurate.
rodcoover: The rectangular image on the left in 3D is going through a wormhole and on the right, you can see the format for Dome, which is a 180 degree image, so all those images shot in standard 4k at to be reformatted to fit within these without showing any distortions.
rodcoover: The background, meanwhile, were filmed in vr where we had natural backgrounds, either with the industry pro 360 or the garmin verb I found neither of them was suitable for green screen shooting there too fuzzy they couldn't couldn't get the green out well.
rodcoover: So they're very nice for backgrounds, but very poor for studio work.
rodcoover: This, for example, is the background that we used for anna's hand.
rodcoover: background this movement of backgrounds, is another fasting aspect of of working in this platform, because one can combine imagery from.
rodcoover: All sorts of very loaded spaces and bring them into a story in this case a story that is about history and destruction, I did a lot of filming in these tunnels built by the Nazis and the Polish German border.
rodcoover: To talk about dangerous spaces and the nightmares or the imaginary say create.
rodcoover: I film tunnel see the stairs sequence in.
rodcoover: Military watchtower.
rodcoover: filmed.
rodcoover: The set of the thin these abandoned factory towns to create the dystopia of the future that is very present in fact this is in Poland Russian built factory town and Poland.
rodcoover: and
rodcoover: I was allowed to show a one minute clip from the film Titanic is beginning to dream.
rodcoover: he's he has a fear of being late, particularly of not being there in time for me to enter at the station.
rodcoover: And this is a little secret says he's entering into a dream imagine he's now within on one hand, is in his bunker you can see the up in the top.
rodcoover: The image of the bunker space, but he is also inside a clock.
rodcoover: I let this time be different don't be late, not this time loved you so much, if anything, should keep us apart and remember check the time.
Are you remember to check the time don't be quarter to five.
rodcoover: station when the train comes in Where are you at the tone kiss me as if the last time that time will be.
loved you so much.
One of the font all files, now the time to be once in a while.
once in a while now it's been a while now.
And then.
You know at the tone house and then.
will be.
My second again.
Another one.
rodcoover: In allowing more was more than more than at the tone, the at the tone, the.
rodcoover: Okay, and so that's a little glimpse into the.
rodcoover: Key time a 40 minute piece for domes and.
rodcoover: And 360 cinema and vr headsets.
rodcoover: released march 2020.
rodcoover: And the full paper discussing it is on the site and i'll pass it along Thank you.
Vin?cius UFMT: Thank you roderick that was.
Vin?cius UFMT: An amazing.
Vin?cius UFMT: Film and i'll pass.
It on.
Vin?cius UFMT: To Danny Espinosa.
Vin?cius UFMT: With the paper 125 called learning management platforms notes on teaching to record in a pandemic.
Dani Spinosa: hey, thank you for having me 55 cute.
rodcoover: minutes and.
Dani Spinosa: So I originally proposed as paper that I thought was going to be this like cool clothes.
Dani Spinosa: analytical and study of learning management systems which we are maybe too.
Dani Spinosa: familiar with.
Dani Spinosa: These days, and and to talk about their abilities and their shortcomings in encouraging.
Dani Spinosa: Non programming students, which are who.
Dani Spinosa: Who I teach to engage with code and critical and literary ways and here.
Dani Spinosa: Specifically i'm talking about.
Dani Spinosa: opera year.
Dani Spinosa: At literature students, but this is 2020 wine and things have not been turning out, as we have expected them to for a long time, so of course that's not the paper.
Dani Spinosa: I ended up.
Dani Spinosa: Submitting and there were a number of reasons why the paper didn't end up like I thought it was going to and the big one, was that I was creating.
Dani Spinosa: A lot alive and i'm adjunct here in southern Ontario I teach at three different institutions all remote right now and it's.
been.
Dani Spinosa: A lot, so the paper that I ended up writing and is that paper that argues that basically that the pandemic has really laid bare several of the difficulties of precarious Labor in the academy and and let me show you limit, let me just have this baby going.
Dani Spinosa: wow I talked to you hold on.
There, she is hi.
Dani Spinosa: So.
Dani Spinosa: wouldn't you I when I submitted was I paper about ways I actually quite really like and a.
Dani Spinosa: Equal parts scholarly and reflective pedagogical analysis and critique of the use of the learning management system blackboard which is not what you're looking at right now for course delivery of a course called.
Dani Spinosa: n GL 4309 digital adventures in English engaging with the digital humanities at Trent just in peterborough Ontario just a bit outside of Toronto, where I am right now.
Dani Spinosa: 4309 is a fourth year seminar and it's marketed primarily as a course in digital humanities tools, so the practical application of D H tools.
Dani Spinosa: For the study of literature and the digital literary and it was the first time that trend was able to mount it and then, when they mounted the course they found themselves without a digital humanists to instruct it so they brought me in contract.
Dani Spinosa: Just less than a month before the course was about to start.
Dani Spinosa: And one thing I did when I took on the course was.
Dani Spinosa: use to record specifically as a DHS tool so rather than making the argument that I think we no longer have to make that there's a role for a lead in D H study.
Dani Spinosa: I just situated this classic work of evil it as a tool for digital humanities research and for scholarship.
Dani Spinosa: And in that way i'm following the quite excellent arguments made recently about the role of Elan in dh, especially those made by teeny gricar and James o'sullivan in their excellent recent publication.
Dani Spinosa: Now I know i'm preaching to the choir here, but it bears mentioning, especially as we continue remote teaching here in Toronto indefinitely.
Dani Spinosa: That the diversity of access tools and i'm talking about hardware, software and all the messy bits in between that students use to engage in their online courses.
Dani Spinosa: make the already difficult task of taking liberal arts students and getting them to mess with code even more difficult, you can't count on them to have a developer environment you can't count on them to.
Dani Spinosa: Have that hands on experience and and we have the added problem of having to use proprietary learning management systems in the courses and then try and offer these places for manipulation and programming with in those proprietary spaces.
Dani Spinosa: So when I ended up doing it is what so many of us who I like to say, put the age in dh as a an egg very much come from a humanist and not a digital or programming.
Dani Spinosa: perspective was I consulted a programmer.
Dani Spinosa: Who wants john or see a Toronto based programmer and a friend of mine who was able to help me share the editable code in this interface you're looking at right now J s fiddle.
Dani Spinosa: Which markets itself as a free coaching tool that allows you to edit share execute and debug web code within a browser.
Dani Spinosa: And just fiddle is marketed as a code playground and mercy and I work to take long for its original code and separated here into html javascript which was.
Dani Spinosa: At perhaps less scary for the students CSS with they mostly didn't touch and then it allows it to run.
Dani Spinosa: And here in the browser and the paper that I ended up said meeting is, incidentally, not just a meditation on security and the role of the security in navigating these these.
Dani Spinosa: Issues of platform at during the pandemic, but also a kind of interesting I think close reading of the various implied audiences of these two different tools blackboard and J s fiddle this of course looking like a 90s hacker movie.
Dani Spinosa: Free freaked out the students, a little bit at the beginning versus blackboard which is sleek easily navigable and obviously proprietary so that's the paper, I gave you and I hope you take some time to read it, because it was exhausting and fun that's all I got for you.
Vin?cius UFMT: Thank you Danny it's been awesome.
and
Vin?cius UFMT: So now.
Vin?cius UFMT: I think we can open up with discussions.
Vin?cius UFMT: If people want to open up their minds or write in the chat or even the panelists interact with each other.
Vin?cius UFMT: Dean.
Dene Grigar: Thank you for the papers it's wonderful, so I mind is not a questions comment but it's interesting to start the presentations with the works that are no longer available and that archive and then to look at the most recent kind of technology is being used to produce digital storytelling.
Dene Grigar: and ask the question you know.
Dene Grigar: What.
Dene Grigar: what's going to happen with the worst we're producing now.
Dene Grigar: So I think it's really interesting to look at both from in the same panel, so thank you for sharing that.
Dene Grigar: with us.
Colin Post: yeah.
Colin Post: I was just thinking to me so one of the things I think that I talked about in the paper in terms of.
Colin Post: The network Latino database is that.
Colin Post: One of the strategies that mccarran uses is like you know just like simple description right, which is something that we're.
Colin Post: familiar with, as a kind of preservation tool throughout history right, so we have you know descriptions other artworks from earlier times I don't want to exist right but descriptions have continued to be.
Colin Post: copied over into the text, and you know through citations and things like that now, I was just noticing a kind of another sort of preservation approach happening in in terms of gorge which.
Colin Post: Danny wrote about of like.
Colin Post: repetition and sort of re mixing and sort of that's another way to keep something alive right is to sort of recreate it and this these various iterations that that continue to.
Colin Post: To to elaborate, but of course that's also like this very text based.
Colin Post: piece that uses, you know html and javascript and CSS like things that are relatively robust, both in terms of the ability to pick them up and deconstruct them and do things with them, but also in just that, like I don't think html and javascript and CSS are going anywhere anytime soon.
Dene Grigar: polling question did you document this and helps it, I mean everything we're doing, we should be documenting and helps that so did you take that whole just just the database itself and say this existed here the works that were listed in.
Colin Post: yeah I.
Colin Post: did not check to see if the database is already has already been catalogued and i'm set, but I will certainly take on that.
Colin Post: That citizen archivists duty and do that if it hasn't been already.
Scott Rettberg: yeah.
Scott Rettberg: i'm not sure if it has but also just to mention that, right now, my students are uploading all the all the papers.
Scott Rettberg: But not necessarily doing all the Cross references and things like that, so I think they're getting in touch with most with most everyone.
Scott Rettberg: To say and say this to everyone, please do check those records add the Cross references at other works it's a really, really great opportunity to to bring these resources and make them public make them more public to people who don't know.
Dene Grigar: it's really important for all of us there they're talking about even just one work in our research to make sure it's in a film set.
Dene Grigar: And it's filled out and.
Dene Grigar: it's been done so, if we could all do, that it helps.
Dene Grigar: So many people.
Vin?cius UFMT: I think a lot has a question as well.
Carlota Salvador Megias: Okay, for me to talk now I thought the the panelists we're gonna talk to each other, first I don't mind waiting.
rodcoover: jump in I think.
Carlota Salvador Megias: yeah okay um so i'm quite new to this field so um maybe some of the things that interest me are a bit more on the on the baseline superficial level but um I really enjoyed reading your paper.
Carlota Salvador Megias: Calling post and your discussion of go do novus experiments and aesthetic organization, on page six made me think about the aesthetics of informatics more generally.
Carlota Salvador Megias: And how much aesthetic considerations influence informatics choices in general, and I was wondering if I could just get your general thoughts and anybody else's who's interested.
Carlota Salvador Megias: On some of the advantages and pitfalls that you see in this kind of relationship between like a person's aesthetic sensibilities and correctional intentions and, like the goals of informatics.
Colin Post: yeah no that's that's really interesting.
Colin Post: And I was really thrilled to see that Olga will be giving a keynote and a couple of days, so if you didn't see that, on the schedule the the person I cited.
Colin Post: That you're referring to is going to be.
Colin Post: Giving a keynote think Friday that right.
Colin Post: But the question.
Colin Post: So I think there's a lot of interesting things that could be further explored about sort of like discussions happening around like data visualization and.
Colin Post: those sorts of conversations that are happening more in the sort of like data science data analytic spheres and things happening in digital humanities and.
Colin Post: And Isla because, obviously, we have a lot of experience, like with visualizing information in different ways, although for often different purposes right for to engender a kind of aesthetic experience, rather than to to analyze something or pull something out.
Colin Post: Yes, Sir, more like a general question.
Colin Post: Our general comment.
Colin Post: I don't know.
Colin Post: I mean, one of the things that's interesting with.
Colin Post: With how Korea Nova.
Colin Post: sort of fear arises and aesthetics of organization, though, is it that it's not happening on an individual level it's sort of this.
Colin Post: emergent thing that's happening between lots of people that are involved in like putting a platform together and all the different sort of strands but, but human and technical that are coming together so there's almost not it's almost for for how she theorizes sort of.
Colin Post: In organizational subjects there's not really an ability to take a sort of big picture overview and sort of make.
Colin Post: Those kinds of those kinds of decisions that a lot of things are sort of emerging and just sort of dependent on sort of how things fit together.
Colin Post: So i'm just kind of rambling at this point, but i'll invite other panelists to to step into additional thoughts.
Vin?cius UFMT: i'm mmm hmm I think Sarin has a question as well, we had written in the chat.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): yeah.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): My I guess my question follows a bit on from what Dini talked about, but in a different way.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): The sort of historic sizing and the historical technologies in the historical works that both Colin.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): touches on by talking about the works that have disappeared and yeah in a way of documenting their obsolescence right and and and and rot.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Of course, your piece also showed this sort of.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): You definitely play a lot with media history and the archaeology and also the historical clocks the soul drop sets up a panoramic.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): dimensions.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): So so so my question would be more.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): On on on how do you see these lesions what does it mean to use historical technology or what does it mean to why are you interested in this historical technologies historical media what what are their effects.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Currently, or or you know what do they pointed in the contemporary.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): rock you.
rodcoover: can start off with that seagull else wants to.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): jump in.
rodcoover: I think so many people also who are out there in the audience like.
rodcoover: are involved in a similar practice of looking at correspondences to our current media to different kinds of media, not just the one that came right before it.
rodcoover: Early on, really in our.
rodcoover: The rise of hypertext writing and media in the 90s it already has so much focus on the relationship of the web page to the medieval manuscript and then to panoramic representation, with the rise of early quick time.
rodcoover: The only quicktime vr panoramic works of the turn of the millennium.
rodcoover: In 19th century technologies of panorama and how vision is shaped and how, in a way different kind of perspective growth and also in a way, how those technologies.
rodcoover: tackled questions of spatial movement and spatial logic in relationship to time in different ways, and these topics, whether what I as a filmmaker first and be starting in film and coming into other media forms.
rodcoover: was so dominant in early cinema when their early cinema was tackling the question of how does film make time.
rodcoover: create these strange imagine world that transports people in ways that hadn't really happened quite the same way with the cut.
rodcoover: and speeding motion slowing motion and so so many of the questions that come up again in our current media come up with the birth of each of these other forms.
rodcoover: and early cinema, the questions in a way, many questions that became forgotten with the rise of dominant genres are hanging out there, and now the cinema and our wonderful.
rodcoover: Issues to exploit in the days of early cinema when cinema was really just a fairground amusement element, they didn't know what to do with it, it was rivaled with all of these other motion image technologies like this zoetrope.
rodcoover: And, and these are all part of in a way, a plethora you know the sort of mix of of time fragment elements that were were you know wasn't really a domination.
rodcoover: And it's quite an interesting counterpart to play with this counterpart of these different ways of time it's sliced up spaces are thrown together that was happening, then.
rodcoover: So on that, on the one hand they're interesting correspondences, on the other hand, there are things that are a unique to this.
rodcoover: These current technologies of vr immersive technologies as as well, of course, they are in any other, but we are is is is really not cinema, but it uses so much of the technology maps on so perfectly with cinema.
rodcoover: That it creates this wonderful junction disjunctions because what's still working with video editing software in 360 cinema.
rodcoover: And outputs just like film and yet there are so many things actually within that so very different.
rodcoover: So there's a in a way the gaps, there are perhaps portals for us.
rodcoover: In storytelling.
Colin Post: From.
Colin Post: sovereigns question.
Colin Post: That I kind of brought to mind another question that I wanted to propose to Danny about this, one that i've been thinking about as well, of like.
Colin Post: How to sort of if we're incorporating historical works of Isla into classes, how to sort of put students in touch with like technologies that are maybe.
Colin Post: The older technologies that were used in in these works right and the sort of challenge of doing that mediated through a learning management system.
Colin Post: So yeah you have any thoughts Danny about how you might approach that like.
Colin Post: Through the sort of.
Colin Post: Learning management online class, how are you I put students in touch with like older technologies.
Dani Spinosa: yeah it's a good question when i'm still kind of working on, I think it's like a double edged sword, on the one hand.
Dani Spinosa: Students, especially young students these days have this idea that if the tech looks old and they have ideas of white lake or.
Dani Spinosa: Like 90s or early 2000s tech looks like and it can be a kind of empowering experience, especially for students who are liberal arts students who don't know how to do this they have this idea, which is both.
Dani Spinosa: True, and not true that the tech is more simple, and so there'll be able to go back and look through and understand and grasp on to little parts i'm always a bit concerned about it, turning into that i'm students having to cater to professor's nostalgia.
Dani Spinosa: which I think one student wants told me they were told to watch the Princess bride before going to.
Dani Spinosa: Before going to college, so that they could get their students or their proper references and so a worry it's going to become something like that, where they're constantly kind of cake is that's horrible right.
Dani Spinosa: And I am guilty of it, I will admit i'm by lake you, you have to walk that line between I get a little nervous I got all up in my field, looking at that Netscape.
Dani Spinosa: emulator already I was like oh like it feels so nice and you have to be careful, because the whole point when I talk about it in my paper is the whole point of this.
Dani Spinosa: is for it to be empowering this this process of getting an undergrad an English teacher English teacher to mess, with a little javascript for a moment should be empowering.
Dani Spinosa: him and you run the risk of.
Dani Spinosa: course of oh that's so far outside of me, so I don't have an answer I have lots of problems and i'm navigating.
Vin?cius UFMT: I have a question for donnie.
Vin?cius UFMT: As she said that she works with prospective English teachers right students who don't have much background and coding and other tech skills like that, do you think that the challenge.
Vin?cius UFMT: Is of teaching them elite business that require coding is different in remote teaching and in face to face teaching, do you think that difference affects the pedagogical process.
Dani Spinosa: It does it, there are some good benefits and some problems I can't.
Dani Spinosa: it's a lot harder for me to be right there with them scrolling through or just answering a quick question like that.
Dani Spinosa: and making sure they're like that's why I liked js settle as a workaround was because I could just send them a link and suddenly they were in.
Dani Spinosa: They were in the code, they were watching it run so for someone who I can't yeah they don't have developer environments, they don't know how to even find.
Dani Spinosa: The source code they don't understand like literally they were like I can't look at the Code, the second I see like square brackets i'm going to start freaking out so i'm to kind of ease them into it, I thought the workaround was useful but there's a lot of.
Dani Spinosa: can do it on their own time I wasn't there you know watching them in a while, but they weren't feeling stressed about that, so they could go back and review the material kind of on their own time.
Dani Spinosa: If i'm being totally honest I had maybe a 50% I actually tried this rate and if 50% know the code is scary rate, and I think that's pretty good I was happy.
Patrick Lichty: Danny I have a question is that this is really interesting what you're talking about as that, so the thing here at winona state.
Patrick Lichty: When i'm you know, having come over from Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi and you know hanging out with the guys here.
Patrick Lichty: Is that we're looking at the idea of how we can, how we can start getting students involved media and different narrative structures, the one thing that i'm looking at here.
Patrick Lichty: Is that i've worked extensively with 1978 slow scan TV equipment.
Patrick Lichty: So the thing is i'm asking and The thing is, I want to look have them be working with time based narrative structures, using one frame every seven seconds, you know at 120 pixels by you know.
Patrick Lichty: For color is all that, I mean this is really, really to in their mind crude stuff, but do you think that there's an event horizon in which there's a different differentiation between the style.
Patrick Lichty: And what I would say is that a sin chronic alien this you know what I made was idea so so say, for example in Korea Archangel in his piece, you know super.
Patrick Lichty: super Mario clouds he was going back for false nostalgia, but the thing is, I feel like you know, sometimes that you go back.
Patrick Lichty: Further, yet you wind up almost in sort of like in the students of the millennium kind of like a vern Jules verne like sort of.
Patrick Lichty: You know retro cyberpunk sort of world in which.
Patrick Lichty: is like oh my God, what is this thing this is this, you know, this might as well be a scary univac you know, like what the hell do I do with this and.
Patrick Lichty: The thing is, in the unfamiliarity the alien this of old retro retro tech, you know i'm wondering whether there's you know this this line between how far back, can you go till you break with you know these ideas that you're talking about and then it gets into like a retro tech.
Dani Spinosa: mm hmm um I think it's going to depend it's going to depend on the group and their familiarity with the tech and and what else you're building on in the class.
Dani Spinosa: I like I can't tell you how many times like i'm like obsessed with that scene in the net where Sandra bullock orders by pizza from her.
Dani Spinosa: from her balance and like obsessed with my moment and I was trying to talk to them about it and trying to be like like.
Dani Spinosa: Like indiana Jones style media archaeologist now and being like look at how amazing this is and they they didn't understand.
Dani Spinosa: How to sit like you need a kind of media history class in order to have them be able to situate that as a weird moment of nostalgia for that to be a strange interesting thing, so I don't know I mean I.
Dani Spinosa: You lose content yeah.
Patrick Lichty: I mean.
Patrick Lichty: yeah there was a point in which.
Patrick Lichty: You know there's there's a point in which the students have kind of an idea of a context but The thing is, I think back beyond the event horizon that context, no longer exists and that's where the challenges I think.
rodcoover: that's a beautiful thing too is that each of those moments is also, in a way, you know if there is no future known each technology, you know if you're in the moment where you can imagine, the future of that technology.
rodcoover: Not becoming what it became but jumping from we do a lot of hand painted film I do a lot of hand painted hand scratching film in class.
rodcoover: With students go from hand painting on celluloid into digital images if TV never happened or the rest of film never happened, and the way you should these technologies with a lot of fun video working with all video is totally like that too.
rodcoover: And there's something about just cutting out in the middle, that is, opens up lots of things if they can like play with monitors that have you know, really.
rodcoover: funky old resolution lines and go straight from that into a different thing and the way it's so it's it's hard to get rid of the aesthetic of the last year.
rodcoover: Whatever that last year is so something really beautiful right show your students psycho charged in a different way, once they can work with some something other than the most recent stuff.
Patrick Lichty: yeah The one thing I love is I love it I just I just showed them this stuff and I just say this became Skype.
Patrick Lichty: And they're just what what you know.
Patrick Lichty: I mean this became zoom actually sort of you know i'm the end they're just going like what you know.
Colin Post: This is something that comes up in.
Colin Post: My classes as well, but from a slightly different angle that I kind of wanted to throw in so I teach in a library information science department so students can master's degrees that want to go work in libraries, or for archives and museums so.
Colin Post: In enact.
Colin Post: For that, like for that student group I really stress like history of technology history, information technology as like a core sort of area of knowledge that they need to come away with.
Colin Post: And maybe that's that's a term that I feel like i'm going to be going alone in my department, sometimes it's like such a focus on like innovation and like always like just knowing like the newest thing which is going to become historical five years from now, anyway.
Colin Post: So I feel like students that are going to go work in those.
Colin Post: In those cultural heritage institutions, especially those that are going to work in archives that needs that are going to be working with older materials and sort of being the ones that are responsible for providing the context to to researchers or audiences.
Colin Post: That you really need that sort of media history technology history.
Colin Post: skill set and, of course, that you know that was just kind of alluding to that feeds into you know.
Colin Post: People approaching those questions from.
Colin Post: The perspective of researcher because you're Mr the library into sort of the intermediary that's helping that researcher to to understand that that context.
Colin Post: For like the item that they're using as well.
Colin Post: And so there.
Colin Post: Are other questions from the audience that that another sort of different direction that we can take the conversation and.
Colin Post: So one thing that I was thinking.
Colin Post: me about.
Colin Post: Your paper, and as you were talking about your paper this morning and something that i've thought about too is like how.
Colin Post: How dependent we're becoming on these like corporate platforms and technologies, and I think that's sort of a theme that's running throughout throughout this conference is one of the themes of the conference.
Colin Post: And this, especially like so.
Colin Post: kind of antithetical returned to historical perhaps overlay nostalgic lens and medical to like you know the the ethos of of the early web where the goal was for things to be open and yield understandable by by people that were using it for the first time.
Colin Post: That, but you know.
Colin Post: i'm just sort of wondering like what is the what is the leverage that we have to sort of push back against that.
Colin Post: Or you know how do we avoid just becoming complicit in using these like corporate learning management platforms and web conferencing platforms.
Colin Post: And all this stuff I don't know.
Dani Spinosa: God I wish I had I wish I had a good answer for you, the truth is, like the the background why I ended up coming to the paper, I take with us as part of that.
Dani Spinosa: and digital humanities class I kind of grounded everything into this debate and we're David Columbia and and whoever else in that the article about neo liberal tools.
Dani Spinosa: And then Matthew Christian bombs blog response to that and and to talk about in ground our study of digital humanity in on the one hand, not like becoming some kind of Lake.
Dani Spinosa: A Narco primitivism or like Live eight in the English department and refusing that person, but on the other hand, not kind of neglecting the corporatization which I think I really.
Dani Spinosa: Like i'm, not that I want to like be the adjunct about harps on it, because I get that bad gets annoying but, like you really get an interesting perspective of that corporatization and, as you as you get kind of JET.
Dani Spinosa: jumbled from department to department and you have to get fluent in these different proprietary platforms and and move across them thoughtfully and.
Dani Spinosa: I see, I mean obviously being familiar with what kinds of non proprietary tech are available to you and can be.
Dani Spinosa: can be circulated to your students is one good way around it and the truth is as like a literary scholar first thing never would have known about.
Dani Spinosa: Like all my experience of coding is in proprietary developer environments that's, the only thing i've ever ever used or learned in so you kind of need to be in the 90s.
Dani Spinosa: hacker underground that still exists in some ways for sure and otherwise, like the the university, I think, is is is corporate has been corporate will be corporate my classes my classes all.
Dani Spinosa: Copyright zoom copyright you jerk copyright black or copyright bright space like that's just how i'm going to be teaching it's how we're all teaching I don't know if there's a way.
Dani Spinosa: Around that and we can get bummed out about that, and we would, if we went out for drinks, as we should be after this but.
Dani Spinosa: we'll do it at home.
rodcoover: yeah the whole nfc thing where is also part of this, you know massive land grab taking place and to what degree can enough if everyone else grab you bet it, but then grab as it work because there's nothing left feeling or how do you carve out some of the space, on the other hand.
rodcoover: The you know constant activism made by people having small tools and circumventing the system still is still happening so there's something beautiful about the amount of.
rodcoover: Things that are done because people are out there with with a cell phones a little cameras on note taking devices and able to put stuff up and put stuff out still well that stay I don't know but.
rodcoover: There is that there is something else about how the machine targets that information that I think needs to be addressed, a sort of a in a, how do you shut off the kind of political madness, a lot of time, a lot of that is.
rodcoover: These engines determining what we want to see, rather than being allowed to do that and be allowed to just funnel constantly funnel this the same again the same again the same again 10 people down rabbit holes.
rodcoover: And that is something that needs to be addressed with activism, and the action political change that can be changed rules can be changed, that would change our political dynamic a lot.
rodcoover: and give a lot of a lot more choice because right now, that is, the illusion of choice and often rather choice.
seems to me.
Vin?cius UFMT: And I think seven has another question.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): yeah it kind of relates.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): To this discussion.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And maybe it goes to call in here because because you also work with stuff from the sort of.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Early early net right and and and and, for instance, somebody like really nice his work with this idea of the.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): of how you know how people were commonly designing the early network, and you know and the spirit of net culture that time.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And and and, of course, my question is also, and it also relates to the question I have before is is is is some kind of solution in historical technologies or, at least in the thinking that was part of.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): You know when when when take technology was still utopian before it all became Facebook and soon.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): You know other other because, because I feel we are, we are, we are this moment that also spoke about at the opening where you know we locked down in these squares and.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And like we for this contract we even had to buy a commercial soon, because our you know the corporate soon version that our university provides that has been a privacy, we couldn't even get that to work for our purposes, so you know we locked down in this.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): yeah and these platforms and we need a way out, and I was just thinking you know can history hills.
Patrick Lichty: Sarin do you think that do you think that we could go back to inhabiting the still existent Cree web spaces of the net to do this, like the US net.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Well, in some sense, maybe we can, but of course we have to do it in a new way right.
course.
Colin Post: yeah now I mean, I think that that's.
Colin Post: Definitely sort of historical perspectives media political perspectives can help I mean as sort of the one of the driving.
Colin Post: motivations are sort of sort of underlying.
Colin Post: sort of undergirds a sort of theory methodology of New York media archaeology right is that history history of technology is not a linear.
Colin Post: trajectory of progress right.
Colin Post: there's sort of these.
Colin Post: These resonances and sort of cycles and loops and you know we often sort of circle back to things that were that were ahead of their time or didn't work in one context, but now can be sort of rehabilitated to to talk again in a new context.
Colin Post: So yeah I think that that's you know overall for.
Colin Post: For for media historians people studying studying older.
Colin Post: Examples of digital art and culture, and one of the reasons that i'm you know.
Colin Post: really like to study the work of of.
Colin Post: Artists and writers, is using these technologies is that they're often the ones that are sort of surfacing these ideas of how we can use some sort of system or platform in a way that wasn't maybe how was initially intended, but can sort of point toward.
Colin Post: alternative uses or alternative trajectories so so definitely yes, I mean, I think the question is, what do we, how do we leverage that sort of historical understanding.
Colin Post: into into real change, so I mean, can we be advocating for like.
Colin Post: You know government action to sort of adopt some sort of platform or technology and subsidize it in a way that will make it.
Colin Post: make it more feasible, I mean there's an example here in North Carolina of a town Wilson North Carolina but they have their own.
Colin Post: Internet company that's a city utility that has since been sort of like lobbied against by Internet companies and it's no longer possible for other towns North Carolina to do.
Colin Post: As long as like the law standards that's the way they are, but they're sort of examples like that right of like you know, making the Internet, a public utility.
Colin Post: You know I think it's it's things that we understand are technically possible do we have like the sort of like social, political will to to achieve them.